we live our lives as the prisoners of
thoughts that seem plausible
but can never be true
this is just as terrifying in the
sciences as it is within religion
it seems plausible that if you do good
deeds you'll go to heaven after you die
if you do good deeds you'll be
reincarnated as a better person whereas
those who do bad deeds will be punished
and things will turn out terribly for
them
it seems plausible in the same way as a
sort of moral fable
that if each of us just pitches in and
does our part
if we all just do our best
we can beat global warming by recycling
glass bottles
by taking fewer vacations by reducing
the number of airplanes
being used for tourism i have viewers in
the audience of different ages
some of you will not be old enough to
remember
september 11 2001 and the first few
months of 2002 thereafter let me tell
you that was the single most dramatic
decline
in international air transport in the
history of the world to that time there
was a sudden abrupt reduction in the
number of airplanes flying around the
world did you hear anyone saying oh wow
and just look at the number of parts per
million of carbon in the atmosphere look
at how it's reduced look at how it's
gone down i've had several people say to
me on the internet
just in the last few months
that they believe or they presume
that reducing the number of airplanes in
circulation
will solve
the carbon pollution crisis and they
point to what's happened in just the
last few years 2019 2020 and now 2021
and indeed this is about the most
extreme reduction
of
tourism
international
air transport that you could have under
sort of voluntary conditions without
really having government policies or the
outbreak of a war that forces people to
stop taking flights look at the charts i
have on street view right now
there was no reduction
in the parts per million of carbon in
the atmosphere
in 2019 2020 and in the year
2021 these statistics are accurate up to
the middle of september 2021. it did not
make a difference it did not even slow
down the rate at which the problem is
getting worse and if you haven't seen
this type of chart a million times
before in case you are diluting yourself
into imagining that we're still within
the normal range for carbon in the
atmosphere no the orange line
on the right hand side of the chart
shows how far we are above whatever
could be considered normal going back in
history not just hundreds of years but
many many thousands of years and here's
the thing
the world's gonna end
the world as we know it is over because
even if you can cope with the sun's rays
coming in even if you can for example
deploy satellites to reflect away excess
solar radiation even if you can manage
the temperature change or the rise of
the oceans or maintain ice packs on the
top of the mountains in india that
provide river water that's crucial to
the lives of about a billion people even
if you can do all that even if you can
manage everything as brilliantly as
possible the simple fact that there is
more carbon in the atmosphere means that
the acidity of the oceans is increasing
that the whole ecosystem of the ocean
including the tiniest forms of life
including the constituent components of
coral reefs
anything and everything in the ocean
that relies on calcium which is pretty
much all life in the ocean as we know it
the whole food chain of the ocean will
be wiped out and yes in case you didn't
know it that whole food chain is also
related to the production of oxygen the
production of clouds it's a huge part of
what makes life on earth as we know it
possible now so we are looking at game
over for the oceans even in the best
case scenario of all the other coping
mechanisms stuff like elon musk here
posing with his brand new uh his brand
new system of of roofing and solar
panels right all of these things
proposed to us currently by government
experts by people with phds who are now
being interviewed on the news okay all
of them are a god damn joke and you know
what's worse do you know who's worse we
are
people like us are even worse because i
can say about elon musk he's still out
there trying he is still out there quite
literally building solar roofs and i'm
the guy's harshest critic
but i've got to hand it to him he's born
rich he had a successful career he got
richer what did he want to do with his
millions of dollars he wanted to save
the world he's made a lot of mistakes
along the way in some cases he's done
more harm than good but i can say that
he is still out there with his millions
of dollars humbly trying to nail solar
panels onto people's rooftops to do his
part and we
the vegans of youtube five years ago we
were so committed to this notion of
lifestyle activism that what we were
going to do is display beautiful bodies
in bikinis in front of beaches we were
going to change the world and we didn't
even change youtube this is the reality
the woman in the bikini you've just been
looking at is tess begg
and
she is typical
in as much as her commitment to this
cause her commitment to promoting
veganism her commitment to saving the
world just plain evaporated it just
disappeared
as soon as the money stopped flowing in
and i feel this is true across the board
i feel it's true across our whole
strange category of so-called activism
there was a time when she could
relatively effortlessly get half a
million views in a month and now she's
at a point where she has to work very
hard just to get a few thousand views
and you know what she stops trying
she stops making the effort all the
people who were pretending that they
were far more committed to this cause
than elon musk all the people who looked
down their noses at people like elon
musk and one generation of political
leaders after another as they came and
went and said oh
we're not like them we're morally
superior to those people we are the ones
who are truly going to save the planet
you know what i think all of them
were unaware of themselves at the extent
to which they were just motivated by
money fame power respect and sex and
once they got their money and got their
fame and gotten laid they took their bag
of money and they goddamn left and i
would say this about a lot of people in
lab coats a lot of people are supposedly
respectable scientists who have made
millions of dollars
out of this game and they are not trying
to save the world either i want to close
this video by asking you a very simple
question when you look at these charts
today when you look at these hopeless
charts can you remember what your own
attitude was
10 years ago
what your expectations were 20 years ago
i think a lot of you if you're really
being honest and reflecting
probably 20 years ago you thought oh
well yeah this is bad this carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere thing is bad
or you might have even known
specifically about ocean acidification
oh this is bad but it's getting better
and better now oh looking forward next
five years 10 years 50 years all these
famous people whether you're thinking of
sexy influencers in bikinis or
multi-millionaires who are captains of
industry or the leading politicians in
america france germany england everyone
is preaching from the same prayer book
everyone's inside everyone supports
discussions so from here it can only get
better and better well guess what look
at the line on the chart
it got worse
and it has continued to get worse during
2019 2020 2021
there are no effective halfway measures
reducing airplane transport won't do it
we're looking at two options and we need
coercive action on either one now either
we engage in public education and
coercion on a massive scale to force
humanity to transition to a vegan diet
or we look at radically reducing the
number of human beings on planet earth
of those two
ethically and politically and
pragmatically i know which one i'd
support just a few weeks ago i had this
long in-depth discussion on the channel
if you haven't seen it watch it now and
it's several points during that
discussion i point the finger at my
audience and say not one of you is gonna
send me an email after i make this video
falling on this i'm not gonna get one
email talking about taking action and
instead i'm gonna continue getting a
whole bunch of [ __ ] emails about my
sex life some of which are from people
who want to gossip about it some of
which are from people who actually want
to [ __ ] me whatever whether i'm
flattered or annoyed by this is
immaterial during that video you'll hear
me say look we supposedly have gathered
here in this audience today some of the
most intelligent the best informed and
the most cynical people who've ever been
in the vegan community
what are you going to do about it
because i know i'm not even going to get
one email and i don't have one colleague
to work with there's nothing i can do
there's nobody i can call that's where
i'm at as i creep closer to 6 million
views total on youtube
it seems so
plausible that some scientists in a lab
coat
that some government official that
someone somewhere wealthier more
powerful more influential than yourself
is gonna solve this problem
and i think we live with that seemingly
plausible myth the same way that people
live with the expectation of going to
heaven or hell after they died
throughout the dark ages
what i'm saying to you now is
no
nobody else is going to do it for you
nobody is coming to save you neither
elon musk nor tess begg in her bikini
neither millionaire activism nor
consumer activism nor lifestyle activism
nothing is going to make the difference
i'm turning to you in the audience and
asking
how about
you
[Music]